be capable of launching modules on a commercial launch vehicle or as aCo-manifested Payloads (CPL) on the Space Launch System (SLS).
use docking systems compliant with the DSG-SPEC-MECH-017 GatewayProgram Docking System Specification.
have a minimum of four Gateway Docking System compliant docking portsavailable for non-permanent use in any combination of radial or axial configurations.
use Solar Electric Propulsion (SEP).
be placed and operate in a near-rectilinear halo orbit (NRHO).
be capable of performing a single round trip transfer to Distant RetrogradeOrbit (DRO) and back within 11 months.
provide a fuel capacity that would support performing a minimum of tworound-trip uncrewed low-energy cislunar orbit transfers between a near-rectilinear halo orbit(NRHO) and a distant retrograde orbit (DRO) and orbit maintenance for a period of 15 yearsbetween refueling <TBR-HEOR-002>.
operate, during lunar flyby operations, at an altitude no less than 100 kmduring lunar flyby operations. <TBR-L2-GW-003>
operate in an orbit that limits the time during perilunepassage, below 10,000 km but not lower than 1500 km altitude, above the lunar surface to lessthan 8 consecutive hours.
provide a mission life capability for each module of at least 15 years afterdeployment.
support a crew of two, three, and four.
accommodate crew for a minimum of 30 continuous days independent ofvisiting crew vehicle's systems and consumables.
be capable of uncrewed operations for up to 3 continuous years <TBRHEOR-001> without resupply.
remotely transition from an uncrewed state to accommodate a safe crewingress.
The Gateway SLS Co-Manifested modules shall have a launch mass not exceeding 9000 kg.
have module launch masses not exceeding those in Table 3.2.3-1, GatewayElement Launch Masses <TBR-L2-GW-004>.
protect far side of the moon as a unique radio science location.
operate internal systems, required to maintain control of the Gateway, duringand after exposure to pressures from nominal operation pressures down to zero psi, within<TBD-L2-GW-003> minutes (or a depress rate), for a duration up to <TBD-L2-GW-004> hours.
accommodate automated delivery of logistics cargo and payloads.
allow for safe disposal of the on-orbit Gateway, to preclude the generation ofspace debris, at the end of its useful life.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-GNC-009, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Guidance, Navigation and Control (GNC).
manage the mass properties for the integrated stack, from initial deploymentthrough operational capabilities for the purposes of bounding the center of mass, moments andproducts of inertia and total mass to enable integrated stack rotational and translational control.
change the Gateway attitude to any orientation (as needed) to meetoperational constraints for all configurations.
provide integrated attitude control services for the integrated stack.
acquire and process navigation data onboard to determine absoluteposition/velocity without communications with the earth.
The Gateway must be able to operate for 21 days without ground communications, driving theEarth independence requirement.
incorporate an Absolute Attitude Determination capability.
incorporate an Absolute Navigation State Determination capability.
provide integrated vehicle translational control for the integrated stack.
control attitude and attitude rates, within <TBD-L2-GW-001>.
limit maximum magnitude of linear rigid-body acceleration at the integratedstack center of gravity during integrated vehicle translations to 0.1g.
support autonomous docking, undocking, berthing, and unberthing of VisitingVehicle and modules while there are no crew present on the arriving/departing module orGateway.
provide docking targets as defined in the DSG-SPEC-GNC-009, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for GNC.
be on-orbit refuelable for both Xenon and Hydrazine propellants.
use a monopropellant hydrazine propulsion system.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-COMM-005, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Communications.
incorporate modular, reconfigurable communication systems to supportexpandability and extensibility for additional capabilities.
comply with spectrum selection/allocation, certification, and usage restrictionpolicies set forth in NPD 2570.5, NASA Electromagnetic (EM) Spectrum Management Document.
implement security functions and controls for a high potential impact system utilizing NIST Special Publication 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal InformationSystems and Organizations or approved international equivalent.
provide spherical coverage for the different mission phases and links,excluding non-Gateway structural blockage, as given in Table 3.2.6-1, Data Download Volumeto Earth <TBR-L2-GW-018>.
communicate with Earth for data exchange and radiometric tracking.
support a minimum of 3 simultaneous RF communication links.
communicate with Earth without placing constraints on flight attitudes duringnominal operations.
support at least 7.49 Tbits per day (~935 GB per day) data downlinkcapacity to Earth.
communicate with Lunar Systems.
support at least 1.62 Terabits (TBs) per day data transfer from LunarSystems.
have the capability to communicate with at least 2 Lunar Systemssimultaneously.
provide integrated communications services for all docked modules/vehicles.
communicate with Visiting Vehicle for data exchange and radiometrictracking.
support direct voice communications between crewed spacecraft duringproximity operations.
provide an antenna and RF electronics connecting to visiting vehicles toprovide communications coverage during Rendezvous, Proximity Operations, and Docking (RPOD).
provide internal and external wireless communications.
support internal voice communications between Gateway crew and groundoperators.
communicate with up to 4 EVA crewmembers.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-VSM-003, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Vehicle System Manager (VSM).
provide a VSM to manage the Gateway modules and coordinate with crewand ground controllers.
provide for autonomous operations for up to 21 continuous daysindependent of ground communications, with or without crew.
curate data based on priorities and events.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-FSW-014, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Software.
transport data required for vehicle operations.
capture data required for recovery of vehicle systems.
detect, report, and annunciate faults for alerts, caution, warning, andemergency events to the on-orbit crew (IVA and EVA), lunar-surface crew, Earth (e.g. controlcenters), Visiting Vehicle, and/or autonomous operations.
be able to update executable Flight Software (FSW) and configuration datato support ongoing vehicle operations and configurations.
provide the capability for humans to remotely monitor, operate, and controlthe crewed system and subsystems, where:a. The remote capability is necessary to execute the mission; orb. The remote capability would prevent a catastrophic event; orc. The remote capability would prevent an abort.
have FSW that performs maintenance tasks to limit required periodicservicing of the software by ground and crew.
utilize the Core Flight Software (cFS) as the standard software framework.
provide the capability to isolate and recover from faults identified duringsystem development or mission operations that would result in a catastrophic event.
provide the capability for the onboard crew to manually overridesoftware functionality when the transition to manual operation will not cause a catastrophicevent.
provide the capability for the crew to manuallycontrol the attitude and translation of their crewed space system.
provide the capability for the crew to monitor, operate, and control thecrewed system and subsystems, where:a. The capability is necessary to execute the mission; orb. The capability would prevent a catastrophic event; orc. The capability would prevent an abort.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-CDH-004, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Avionics.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-CHI-018, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Computer Human Interface.
provide a total of three TTE planes through each inter-module connector for redundancy.
incorporate a shared data storage system.
provide shared processing.
provide crew displays and controls that are operable by a crewmember fromwithin any habitable environment.
provide internal lighting for the illumination required for all operational tasksdependent on visible light.
illuminate external surfaces <TBR-L2-GW-014> required for all operationaltasks dependent on external visible light.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-PWR-011, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Power.
provide a minimum of 32kW for Gateway use when SEP is inactive.
conform to the DSG-SPEC-PQS-020, Gateway Electrical Power QualitySpecification Requirements for 120Vdc.
allow for full use of available array power.
distribute primary power using two bi-directional power domains to eachaxial docking port.
implement a redundant 16kW bi-directional primary power pass-through toeach radial docking port.
provide dc-isolation between the Gateway primary power domains and thesecondary power domains.
be capable of operating critical systems off of a single power domain.
provide energy storage capacity capable of supplying a minimum of 32kWduring non-insolation periods of at least 1.5 hrs.
provide a minimum of 24kW for system use when SEP is active.
adhere to the Program Element Power Allocation in Table 3.2.10- 1,Gateway Power Allocation and Table 3.2.10-2, EVR Power Allocation.
reserve a minimum of 4kW power for utilization use.
be automatically booted to an operational and commandable state with theenergizing of the Ground Support Equipment (GSE), or initial delivery vehicle, or the Gatewayprimary power interface.
provide a Gateway standard power interface for internal portable electricalequipment including science and IVR.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-CHI-018, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Computer Human Interface.
provide imagery to support operations during all mission phases.
enable two-way private audio and motion imagery communication betweenthe ground and crew.
provide imagery and associated synchronized audio to the Crew.
record imagery with associated audio.
provide imagery with associated audio to Exploration Systems.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-ECLS-007, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS).
condition the atmosphere in habitable volumes and attached visiting vehiclesto maintain temperature and humidity levels and to provide proper atmosphere circulation withinthe habitable volumes.
provide potable water for crew, system and payload use.
provide fire detection, suppression, isolation, and recovery for any internalfire events when there are potential flammable materials or ignition sources present, or credibleoxygen enrichment.
maintain airborne contaminants below applicable limits for nominal humanperformance during crewed periods.
collect, contain, and dispose of crew bodily wastes.
provide emergency equipment for crew survival, accessible within the timerequired to respond to the emergency.
be designed to operate in atmospheric conditions with 0% humidity duringuncrewed periods.
operate in conditions up to 24.1% oxygen with nominal operating functionsat the nominal atmospheric pressure of 101.3 kPa (14.7 psi).
operate in conditions up to 30% oxygen for atmosphere pressures up to 70kPa (10.2 psia).
maintain an internal habitable environment at pressures between 65 kPa(9.5 psia) to 102 kPa (14.9 psia); with the exception of airlocks.
maintain interior atmosphere temperature to between 4째C (39째F) and 27째C(81째F).
equalize the pressure between adjacent isolated modules.
limit disturbances caused by venting of fluids and gasses per the <TBD-L2-GW-059> table.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-THR-015, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Thermal.
have a Thermal Control System that maintains all habitable volumes andinternal and external components within thermal limits.
operate within thermal limits independent of flight attitude.
apply an architecture that provides for module thermal independence duringnon-contingency operations.
have crew hatches in accordance with DSG-SPEC-HTCH-019, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Hatches.
continuously record structural dynamic responses at discrete locations andprocess data to assess structural life consumption and perform damage detection, location, andassessment.
limit atmospheric leakage rate to less than 0.05 kg/day at ambient pressurein isolated module configuration.
detect atmospheric leaks greater than <TBD-L2-GW-011>.
localize atmospheric leaks to within <TBD-L2-GW-012> location in anypressurized habitable volume.
have an 800mm -0.3mm/+unlimited diameter transfer passageway betweenmodules mated with the Gateway Docking System (GDS), as described in the DSG-SPECMECH-017, Gateway Program Docking System Specification.
be equipped with passive or active crew exercise equipment isolationsystems to reduce induced loads to the primary structure to less than or equal to <TBD-L2-GW-013> per axis at the structural mounting interfaces of the exercise equipment to the primaryGateway structure.
have a Probability of No Penetration (PNP) greater than or equal to0.99999^(A*Y) where: A = total hazardous impact surface area and Y = exposure time in yearsfor items with the potential to create a catastrophic hazard if impacted or punctured by Micrometeoroids and Orbital Debris (MMOD).
provide at least single failure tolerance to catastrophic events.a. Catastrophic hazards that cannot be controlled using failure tolerance may be exempted fromthe failure tolerance requirements with mandatory concurrence from the Technical Authoritiesand Director, Johnson Space Center (JSC) (for crew risk acceptance). Exemptions from failuretolerance shall be requested in accordance with DSG-RQMT-011, Gateway Hazard AnalysisRequirements.
provide the capability for autonomous operation of system and subsystemfunctions, which if lost, would result in a catastrophic event.
control critical hazards.
provide the appropriate failure tolerance capability without the use ofemergency equipment and systems.
protect redundant systems, redundant subsystems, and redundant majorelements of subsystems (such as assemblies, panels, power supplies, tanks, controls, andassociated interconnecting wiring and fluid lines) to ensure that an unexpected event whichdamages one is not likely to prevent the other from performing the functions.
limit the risk of human casualty on the ground in accordance with NPR8715.6, NASA Procedural Requirements for Limiting Orbital Debris.
comply with the requirements in DSG-SPEC-CHP-010, Gateway ProgramSubsystem Specification for Crew Health and Performance (CHP).
provide a habitable volume that accommodates crew living and workingtasks.
manage crew nutrition.
manage crew medical care, per DSG-SPEC-CHP-010, Gateway ProgramSubsystem Specification for CHP.
manage crew behavioral health.
manage crew sleep.
manage crew physiological health.
limit cross-contamination between food preparation areas and bodywaste management and hygiene areas.
protect crew from toxicological hazards.
protect crew from microbial hazards.
protect crew from acoustic hazards.
protect crew from radiation hazards.
maintain a shirt sleeve environment in all habitable volumes during crewedmissions.
manage expected biological hazards.
incorporate window(s) in a habitable element for crew viewing that maximizeviews of both the Moon and Earth measuring no less than 50.8 centimeters (20 inches) indiameter.
tolerate an inadvertent operator action, as identified by a human error analysis (HEA), without causing a catastrophic event.
tolerate inadvertent operator action in the presence of any single systemfailure.
implement controls to human error according to the following precedence:a. Prevent human error in the maintenance, operation, and control of the system.b. Reduce the likelihood of human error and provide the capability for the human to detect andcorrect or recover from the error.c. Design the system to limit the negative effects of errors.
protect crew from decompression sickness (DCS).
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-CS-006, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Crew Systems.
provide for crew to conduct personal hygiene.
provide a trash management system to contain expected trash and evolvedgases.
provide an inventory management system (IMS).
provide a stowage system that can be monitored via the IMS.
accommodate restraints and mobility aids for IVA operations.
provide for self-rescue of an EVA crewperson whobecomes separated from the Gateway spacecraft.
support EVA operations.
establish EVA worksites <TBR-L2-GW-013>.
comply with interface requirements in DSG-IRD-EVA-008, Gateway ProgramExtravehicular Activity (EVA) Compatibility Interface Requirements.
accommodate EVA capability without blocking access to the visiting crewedvehicle(s) during the EVA.
provide EVA compatible accommodations to support continuous translationacross adjacent (berthed/docked) modules.
provide recharge services for at least two-crew EVA suits two times percrewed mission.
use standard robotic interfaces that comply with applicable CSA-GWY-ID-0001, EVR Interface Requirements and Definition Document.
provide power, data, video, structural support and thermal services, asapplicable, to external robotically compatible equipment, during all phases of operation.
provide worksites for external robotics operations in accordance with CSAGWY-ID-0001.
have external Orbital replacement units (ORUs) that are compatible with robotics per the EVR InterfaceRequirements and Definition Document CSA-GWY-ID-0001.
autonomously perform off-loading and re-loading of external logisticsvehicles.
provide external robotically compatible attachment locations that provideservices for ORUs, systems, and payloads during all ORU/payload life-cycle phases: operation,non-operation, external stowage, robotic manipulation and any others.
provide a robotically compatible science airlock.
provide redundant robotic translation paths and utilization access (singlefaulttolerance).
support external robotics performing end-over-end translation to perform itsfunctions on all external surfaces of the Gateway where robotics activities are planned.
provide robotic base points for external robotics operations that allowcoverage of Gateway external surfaces and support all EVR operations as defined in L2-GW-0327.
have an external robotic system capable of autonomous operations thatimplements the following functions on the exterior of Gateway: inspection, installation andremoval of payloads, transfer of equipment through the science airlock, off-loading and reloadingof logistics vehicles, free-flying vehicle capture and release, lunar and planetary missionequipment transfer, lunar and planetary element assembly, berthing and unberthing of modulesand vehicles, removal and replacement of ORUs, self-maintenance, and assistance to EVA.
limit disturbances to the vehicle and robotics, during sensitive ExternalRobotic operations, to a level <TBD-L2-GW-014> that will not affect robot performance andsafety, without the need for flight-specific analysis, including after a single failure.
support a network with a TTE end-over-end translation of the externalrobotics.
support self-deployment of the EVR Element upon initial delivery.
comply with applicable requirements in DSG-SPEC-IVR-013, GatewayProgram Subsystem Specification for Intravehicular Robotics.
provide the ability to access and service designated internal payloads andlogistics without the need for crew intervention.
have internal robotic assets capable of inspection.
support internal robotics access between modules.
provide a method for determining and communicating internal locationinformation that is common to internal robotics and human operators (crew and ground).
ensure that payloads, equipment, and tools used by internal robotics haveinterfaces for both humans and robots.
provide stowage and charging interfaces to support internal roboticsoperations.
provide a reconfigurable mobile video camera system for inspection andinternal robotic operations support.
use robotically compatible interfaces to allow the IVR system toaccess/retrieve/install internal logistics cargo.
provide resources and interfaces for Utilization payloads and payloadaccommodations as defined in the Gateway Utilization Payload Interface RequirementDocument <TBD-L2-GW-062>.
allocate a minimum of 5.15 Tbits/day (644 GB/day) for utilization use.
provide a minimum of three (3) cubic meters (m3) of internal volume forpowered payload locations. Module Volume MHC 1.0 m3 minUS-HAB 1.5 m3 minI-HAB 1.0 m3 min
provide a minimum of five (5) cubic meters (m3) <TBR-L2-GW-016> ofinternal volume for utilization stowage, in addition to powered payload volume allocations.Module VolumeMHC 1.0 <TBR-L2-GW-016> m3minUS-HAB 2.5 <TBR-L2-GW-016> m3minI-HAB 1.5 <TBR-L2-GW-016> m3min
provide <TBD-L2-GW-016> internal volume for powered multi-useequipment to support utilization, in addition to volume for powered payload locations.
have a minimum of 1,000 kg on-orbit mass allocated for utilization, for eachcrewed Gateway mission.
provide enhanced inherent capabilities to facilitatescience.
support satellite deployment.
transfer samples and external hardware from free-flying vehicles andpayloads to the Gateway interior for return to Earth.
The Gateway Probability of Loss of Crew (LOC) shall have a mean value no greater than 1 in 400, for a 30-daycrewed mission including 2 EVAs.
The Gateway Probability of Loss of Mission (LOM) shall have a mean value no greater than 1 in 10, for a oneyear mission including a 30-day crewed mission.
The Gateway modules shall have the predicted system hardware reliability listed below, for itsdefined mission environment considering capability for corrective maintenance in space.Module Reliability Mission PhasePPE 0.97 Transport, Deploy & 1st Year. Withoutcorrective maintenance.PPE 0.935 End-of-mission excluding Transport &Deploy. Without correctivemaintenance.US-HAB 0.998 Per Year for All Mission PhasesI-HAB 0.998 Per Year for All Mission PhasesMHC 0.998 Per Year for All Mission PhasesLM 0.94 Per Year for All Mission PhasesWithout Corrective MaintenanceEVR (XLA) 0.98 Per Year for All Mission PhasesEVR (XDA) 0.93 Per Year for All Mission PhasesAirlock 0.998 <TBR-L2-GW-029> Per Year for All Mission Phases
The Gateway critical systems shall be designed to be maintainable.